docs/components/typography.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Typography
---

Bootstrap includes simple and easily customized typography across the project. In addition to the standard headings, body text, and lists, utility classes are also included.

## Headings

All HTML headings, `<h1>` through `<h6>`, are available. `.h1` through `.h6` classes are also available, for when you want to match the font styling of a heading but still want your text to be displayed inline.

<div class="bs-example bs-example-type">
  <table class="table">
    <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td><h1>h1. Bootstrap heading</h1></td>
        <td class="type-info">Semibold 36px</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><h2>h2. Bootstrap heading</h2></td>
        <td class="type-info">Semibold 30px</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><h3>h3. Bootstrap heading</h3></td>
        <td class="type-info">Semibold 24px</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><h4>h4. Bootstrap heading</h4></td>
        <td class="type-info">Semibold 18px</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><h5>h5. Bootstrap heading</h5></td>
        <td class="type-info">Semibold 14px</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><h6>h6. Bootstrap heading</h6></td>
        <td class="type-info">Semibold 12px</td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
</div>

{% highlight html %}
<h1>h1. Bootstrap heading</h1>
<h2>h2. Bootstrap heading</h2>
<h3>h3. Bootstrap heading</h3>
<h4>h4. Bootstrap heading</h4>
<h5>h5. Bootstrap heading</h5>
<h6>h6. Bootstrap heading</h6>
{% endhighlight %}

Create lighter, secondary text in any heading with a generic `<small>` tag or the `.small` class.

<div class="bs-example bs-example-type">
  <table class="table">
    <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td><h1>h1. Bootstrap heading <small>Secondary text</small></h1></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><h2>h2. Bootstrap heading <small>Secondary text</small></h2></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><h3>h3. Bootstrap heading <small>Secondary text</small></h3></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><h4>h4. Bootstrap heading <small>Secondary text</small></h4></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><h5>h5. Bootstrap heading <small>Secondary text</small></h5></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><h6>h6. Bootstrap heading <small>Secondary text</small></h6></td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
</div>

{% highlight html %}
<h1>h1. Bootstrap heading <small>Secondary text</small></h1>
<h2>h2. Bootstrap heading <small>Secondary text</small></h2>
<h3>h3. Bootstrap heading <small>Secondary text</small></h3>
<h4>h4. Bootstrap heading <small>Secondary text</small></h4>
<h5>h5. Bootstrap heading <small>Secondary text</small></h5>
<h6>h6. Bootstrap heading <small>Secondary text</small></h6>
{% endhighlight %}

## Body copy

Bootstrap's base text is sized with global `font-size: 16px;` and `line-height: 1.5;`. This is applied to the `<body>` and all paragraphs.

{% example html %}
<p>Nullam quis risus eget urna mollis ornare vel eu leo. Cum sociis natoque penatibus et magnis dis parturient montes, nascetur ridiculus mus. Nullam id dolor id nibh ultricies vehicula.</p>
<p>Cum sociis natoque penatibus et magnis dis parturient montes, nascetur ridiculus mus. Donec ullamcorper nulla non metus auctor fringilla. Duis mollis, est non commodo luctus, nisi erat porttitor ligula, eget lacinia odio sem nec elit. Donec ullamcorper nulla non metus auctor fringilla.</p>
<p>Maecenas sed diam eget risus varius blandit sit amet non magna. Donec id elit non mi porta gravida at eget metus. Duis mollis, est non commodo luctus, nisi erat porttitor ligula, eget lacinia odio sem nec elit.</p>
{% endexample %}

## Lead

Make a paragraph stand out by adding `.lead`.

{% example html %}
<p class="lead">
  Vivamus sagittis lacus vel augue laoreet rutrum faucibus dolor auctor. Duis mollis, est non commodo luctus.
</p>
{% endexample %}

## Inline text elements

Styling for all the common inline HTML5 elements.

{% example html %}
<p>You can use the mark tag to <mark>highlight</mark> text.</p>
<p><del>This line of text is meant to be treated as deleted text.</del></p>
<p><s>This line of text is meant to be treated as no longer accurate.</s></p>
<p><ins>This line of text is meant to be treated as an addition to the document.</ins></p>
<p><u>This line of text will render as underlined</u></p>
<p><small>This line of text is meant to be treated as fine print.</small></p>
<p><strong>This line rendered as bold text.</strong></p>
<p><em>This line rendered as italicized text.</em></p>
<p></p>
{% endexample %}

<div class="bs-callout bs-callout-info">
  <h4>Alternate elements</h4>
  <p>Feel free to use <code>&lt;b&gt;</code> and <code>&lt;i&gt;</code> in HTML5. <code>&lt;b&gt;</code> is meant to highlight words or phrases without conveying additional importance while <code>&lt;i&gt;</code> is mostly for voice, technical terms, etc.</p>
</div>

## Alignment classes

Easily realign text to components with text alignment classes.

{% example html %}
<p class="text-left">Left aligned text.</p>
<p class="text-center">Center aligned text.</p>
<p class="text-right">Right aligned text.</p>
<p class="text-justify">Justified text.</p>
<p class="text-nowrap">No wrap text.</p>
{% endexample %}

## Transformation classes

Transform text in components with text capitalization classes.

{% example html %}
<p class="text-lowercase">Lowercased text.</p>
<p class="text-uppercase">Uppercased text.</p>
<p class="text-capitalize">Capitalized text.</p>
{% endexample %}

## Abbreviations

Stylized implementation of HTML's `<abbr>` element for abbreviations and acronyms to show the expanded version on hover. Abbreviations with a `title` attribute have a light dotted bottom border and a help cursor on hover, providing additional context on hover.

### Basic abbreviation

For expanded text on long hover of an abbreviation, include the `title` attribute with the `<abbr>` element.

{% example html %}
<abbr title="attribute">attr</abbr>
{% endexample %}

### Initialism

Add `.initialism` to an abbreviation for a slightly smaller font-size.

{% example html %}
<abbr title="HyperText Markup Language" class="initialism">HTML</abbr>
{% endexample %}

## Address

Present contact information for the nearest ancestor or the entire body of work. Preserve formatting by ending all lines with `<br>`.

{% example html %}
<address>
  <strong>Twitter, Inc.</strong><br>
  795 Folsom Ave, Suite 600<br>
  San Francisco, CA 94107<br>
  <abbr title="Phone">P:</abbr> (123) 456-7890
</address>

<address>
  <strong>Full Name</strong><br>
  <a href="mailto:#">first.last@example.com</a>
</address>
{% endexample %}

## Blockquotes

For quoting blocks of content from another source within your document.

### Default blockquote

Wrap `<blockquote>` around any <abbr title="HyperText Markup Language">HTML</abbr> as the quote. For straight quotes, we recommend a `<p>`.

{% example html %}
<blockquote>
  <p>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Integer posuere erat a ante.</p>
</blockquote>
{% endexample %}

### Blockquote options

Style and content changes for simple variations on a standard `<blockquote>`.

#### Naming a source

Add a `<footer>` for identifying the source. Wrap the name of the source work in `<cite>`.

{% example html %}
<blockquote>
  <p>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Integer posuere erat a ante.</p>
  <footer>Someone famous in <cite title="Source Title">Source Title</cite></footer>
</blockquote>
{% endexample %}

#### Reverse layout

Add `.blockquote-reverse` for a blockquote with right-aligned content.

{% example html %}
<blockquote class="blockquote-reverse">
  <p>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Integer posuere erat a ante.</p>
  <footer>Someone famous in <cite title="Source Title">Source Title</cite></footer>
</blockquote>
{% endexample %}

## Lists

### Unordered

A list of items in which the order does *not* explicitly matter.

{% example html %}
<ul>
  <li>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet</li>
  <li>Nulla volutpat aliquam velit
    <ul>
      <li>Phasellus iaculis neque</li>
      <li>Purus sodales ultricies</li>
      <li>Vestibulum laoreet porttitor sem</li>
      <li>Ac tristique libero volutpat at</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Faucibus porta lacus fringilla vel</li>
  <li>Aenean sit amet erat nunc</li>
  <li>Eget porttitor lorem</li>
</ul>
{% endexample %}

### Ordered

A list of items in which the order *does* explicitly matter.

{% example html %}
<ol>
  <li>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet</li>
  <li>Nulla volutpat aliquam velit
    <ol>
      <li>Phasellus iaculis neque</li>
      <li>Purus sodales ultricies</li>
      <li>Vestibulum laoreet porttitor sem</li>
      <li>Ac tristique libero volutpat at</li>
    </ol>
  </li>
  <li>Faucibus porta lacus fringilla vel</li>
  <li>Aenean sit amet erat nunc</li>
  <li>Eget porttitor lorem</li>
</ol>
{% endexample %}

### Unstyled

Remove the default `list-style` and left margin on list items (immediate children only). **This only applies to immediate children list items**, meaning you will need to add the class for any nested lists as well.

{% example html %}
<ul class="list-unstyled">
  <li>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet</li>
  <li>Consectetur adipiscing elit</li>
  <li>Integer molestie lorem at massa</li>
  <li>Facilisis in pretium nisl aliquet</li>
  <li>Nulla volutpat aliquam velit
    <ul>
      <li>Phasellus iaculis neque</li>
      <li>Purus sodales ultricies</li>
      <li>Vestibulum laoreet porttitor sem</li>
      <li>Ac tristique libero volutpat at</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Faucibus porta lacus fringilla vel</li>
  <li>Aenean sit amet erat nunc</li>
  <li>Eget porttitor lorem</li>
</ul>
{% endexample %}

### Inline

Place all list items on a single line with `display: inline-block; and some light padding.

{% example html %}
<ul class="list-inline">
  <li>Lorem ipsum</li>
  <li>Phasellus iaculis</li>
  <li>Nulla volutpat</li>
</ul>
{% endexample %}

### Description

A list of terms with their associated descriptions.

{% example html %}
<dl>
  <dt>Description lists</dt>
  <dd>A description list is perfect for defining terms.</dd>
  <dt>Euismod</dt>
  <dd>Vestibulum id ligula porta felis euismod semper eget lacinia odio sem nec elit.</dd>
  <dd>Donec id elit non mi porta gravida at eget metus.</dd>
  <dt>Malesuada porta</dt>
  <dd>Etiam porta sem malesuada magna mollis euismod.</dd>
</dl>
{% endexample %}

### Horizontal description

Make terms and descriptions in `<dl>` line up side-by-side. Starts off stacked like default `<dl>`s, but when the navbar expands, so do these.

{% example html %}
<dl class="dl-horizontal">
  <dt>Description lists</dt>
  <dd>A description list is perfect for defining terms.</dd>
  <dt>Euismod</dt>
  <dd>Vestibulum id ligula porta felis euismod semper eget lacinia odio sem nec elit.</dd>
  <dd>Donec id elit non mi porta gravida at eget metus.</dd>
  <dt>Malesuada porta</dt>
  <dd>Etiam porta sem malesuada magna mollis euismod.</dd>
  <dt>Felis euismod semper eget lacinia</dt>
  <dd>Fusce dapibus, tellus ac cursus commodo, tortor mauris condimentum nibh, ut fermentum massa justo sit amet risus.</dd>
</dl>
{% endexample %}

<div class="bs-callout bs-callout-info">
  <h4>Auto-truncating</h4>
  <p>Horizontal description lists will truncate terms that are too long to fit in the left column with <code>text-overflow</code>. In narrower viewports, they will change to the default stacked layout.</p>
</div>

Commit message:

move scaffolding stuff back to layout once more, split off the type docs to typography section

docs/components/typography.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Typography
---

Bootstrap includes simple and easily customized typography across the project. In addition to the standard headings, body text, and lists, utility classes are also included.

## Global settings

Bootstrap sets basic global display, typography, and link styles. Specifically, we:

- Set `background-color: #fff;` on the `<body>`
- Use the `@font-family-base`, `@font-size-base`, and `@line-height-base` attributes as our typographic base
- Set the global link color via `@link-color` and apply link underlines only on `:hover`

These styles can be found within `scaffolding.less`.


## Headings

All HTML headings, `<h1>` through `<h6>`, are available. `.h1` through `.h6` classes are also available, for when you want to match the font styling of a heading but still want your text to be displayed inline.

<div class="bs-example bs-example-type">
  <table class="table">
    <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td><h1>h1. Bootstrap heading</h1></td>
        <td class="type-info">Semibold 36px</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><h2>h2. Bootstrap heading</h2></td>
        <td class="type-info">Semibold 30px</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><h3>h3. Bootstrap heading</h3></td>
        <td class="type-info">Semibold 24px</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><h4>h4. Bootstrap heading</h4></td>
        <td class="type-info">Semibold 18px</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><h5>h5. Bootstrap heading</h5></td>
        <td class="type-info">Semibold 14px</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><h6>h6. Bootstrap heading</h6></td>
        <td class="type-info">Semibold 12px</td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
</div>

{% highlight html %}
<h1>h1. Bootstrap heading</h1>
<h2>h2. Bootstrap heading</h2>
<h3>h3. Bootstrap heading</h3>
<h4>h4. Bootstrap heading</h4>
<h5>h5. Bootstrap heading</h5>
<h6>h6. Bootstrap heading</h6>
{% endhighlight %}

Create lighter, secondary text in any heading with a generic `<small>` tag or the `.small` class.

<div class="bs-example bs-example-type">
  <table class="table">
    <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td><h1>h1. Bootstrap heading <small>Secondary text</small></h1></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><h2>h2. Bootstrap heading <small>Secondary text</small></h2></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><h3>h3. Bootstrap heading <small>Secondary text</small></h3></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><h4>h4. Bootstrap heading <small>Secondary text</small></h4></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><h5>h5. Bootstrap heading <small>Secondary text</small></h5></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><h6>h6. Bootstrap heading <small>Secondary text</small></h6></td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
</div>

{% highlight html %}
<h1>h1. Bootstrap heading <small>Secondary text</small></h1>
<h2>h2. Bootstrap heading <small>Secondary text</small></h2>
<h3>h3. Bootstrap heading <small>Secondary text</small></h3>
<h4>h4. Bootstrap heading <small>Secondary text</small></h4>
<h5>h5. Bootstrap heading <small>Secondary text</small></h5>
<h6>h6. Bootstrap heading <small>Secondary text</small></h6>
{% endhighlight %}

## Body copy

Bootstrap's base text is sized with global `font-size: 16px;` and `line-height: 1.5;`. This is applied to the `<body>` and all paragraphs.

{% example html %}
<p>Nullam quis risus eget urna mollis ornare vel eu leo. Cum sociis natoque penatibus et magnis dis parturient montes, nascetur ridiculus mus. Nullam id dolor id nibh ultricies vehicula.</p>
<p>Cum sociis natoque penatibus et magnis dis parturient montes, nascetur ridiculus mus. Donec ullamcorper nulla non metus auctor fringilla. Duis mollis, est non commodo luctus, nisi erat porttitor ligula, eget lacinia odio sem nec elit. Donec ullamcorper nulla non metus auctor fringilla.</p>
<p>Maecenas sed diam eget risus varius blandit sit amet non magna. Donec id elit non mi porta gravida at eget metus. Duis mollis, est non commodo luctus, nisi erat porttitor ligula, eget lacinia odio sem nec elit.</p>
{% endexample %}

## Lead

Make a paragraph stand out by adding `.lead`.

{% example html %}
<p class="lead">
  Vivamus sagittis lacus vel augue laoreet rutrum faucibus dolor auctor. Duis mollis, est non commodo luctus.
</p>
{% endexample %}

## Inline text elements

Styling for all the common inline HTML5 elements.

{% example html %}
<p>You can use the mark tag to <mark>highlight</mark> text.</p>
<p><del>This line of text is meant to be treated as deleted text.</del></p>
<p><s>This line of text is meant to be treated as no longer accurate.</s></p>
<p><ins>This line of text is meant to be treated as an addition to the document.</ins></p>
<p><u>This line of text will render as underlined</u></p>
<p><small>This line of text is meant to be treated as fine print.</small></p>
<p><strong>This line rendered as bold text.</strong></p>
<p><em>This line rendered as italicized text.</em></p>
<p></p>
{% endexample %}

<div class="bs-callout bs-callout-info">
  <h4>Alternate elements</h4>
  <p>Feel free to use <code>&lt;b&gt;</code> and <code>&lt;i&gt;</code> in HTML5. <code>&lt;b&gt;</code> is meant to highlight words or phrases without conveying additional importance while <code>&lt;i&gt;</code> is mostly for voice, technical terms, etc.</p>
</div>

## Alignment classes

Easily realign text to components with text alignment classes.

{% example html %}
<p class="text-left">Left aligned text.</p>
<p class="text-center">Center aligned text.</p>
<p class="text-right">Right aligned text.</p>
<p class="text-justify">Justified text.</p>
<p class="text-nowrap">No wrap text.</p>
{% endexample %}

## Transformation classes

Transform text in components with text capitalization classes.

{% example html %}
<p class="text-lowercase">Lowercased text.</p>
<p class="text-uppercase">Uppercased text.</p>
<p class="text-capitalize">Capitalized text.</p>
{% endexample %}

## Abbreviations

Stylized implementation of HTML's `<abbr>` element for abbreviations and acronyms to show the expanded version on hover. Abbreviations with a `title` attribute have a light dotted bottom border and a help cursor on hover, providing additional context on hover.

### Basic abbreviation

For expanded text on long hover of an abbreviation, include the `title` attribute with the `<abbr>` element.

{% example html %}
<abbr title="attribute">attr</abbr>
{% endexample %}

### Initialism

Add `.initialism` to an abbreviation for a slightly smaller font-size.

{% example html %}
<abbr title="HyperText Markup Language" class="initialism">HTML</abbr>
{% endexample %}

## Address

Present contact information for the nearest ancestor or the entire body of work. Preserve formatting by ending all lines with `<br>`.

{% example html %}
<address>
  <strong>Twitter, Inc.</strong><br>
  795 Folsom Ave, Suite 600<br>
  San Francisco, CA 94107<br>
  <abbr title="Phone">P:</abbr> (123) 456-7890
</address>

<address>
  <strong>Full Name</strong><br>
  <a href="mailto:#">first.last@example.com</a>
</address>
{% endexample %}

## Blockquotes

For quoting blocks of content from another source within your document.

### Default blockquote

Wrap `<blockquote>` around any <abbr title="HyperText Markup Language">HTML</abbr> as the quote. For straight quotes, we recommend a `<p>`.

{% example html %}
<blockquote>
  <p>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Integer posuere erat a ante.</p>
</blockquote>
{% endexample %}

### Blockquote options

Style and content changes for simple variations on a standard `<blockquote>`.

#### Naming a source

Add a `<footer>` for identifying the source. Wrap the name of the source work in `<cite>`.

{% example html %}
<blockquote>
  <p>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Integer posuere erat a ante.</p>
  <footer>Someone famous in <cite title="Source Title">Source Title</cite></footer>
</blockquote>
{% endexample %}

#### Reverse layout

Add `.blockquote-reverse` for a blockquote with right-aligned content.

{% example html %}
<blockquote class="blockquote-reverse">
  <p>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Integer posuere erat a ante.</p>
  <footer>Someone famous in <cite title="Source Title">Source Title</cite></footer>
</blockquote>
{% endexample %}

## Lists

### Unordered

A list of items in which the order does *not* explicitly matter.

{% example html %}
<ul>
  <li>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet</li>
  <li>Nulla volutpat aliquam velit
    <ul>
      <li>Phasellus iaculis neque</li>
      <li>Purus sodales ultricies</li>
      <li>Vestibulum laoreet porttitor sem</li>
      <li>Ac tristique libero volutpat at</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Faucibus porta lacus fringilla vel</li>
  <li>Aenean sit amet erat nunc</li>
  <li>Eget porttitor lorem</li>
</ul>
{% endexample %}

### Ordered

A list of items in which the order *does* explicitly matter.

{% example html %}
<ol>
  <li>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet</li>
  <li>Nulla volutpat aliquam velit
    <ol>
      <li>Phasellus iaculis neque</li>
      <li>Purus sodales ultricies</li>
      <li>Vestibulum laoreet porttitor sem</li>
      <li>Ac tristique libero volutpat at</li>
    </ol>
  </li>
  <li>Faucibus porta lacus fringilla vel</li>
  <li>Aenean sit amet erat nunc</li>
  <li>Eget porttitor lorem</li>
</ol>
{% endexample %}

### Unstyled

Remove the default `list-style` and left margin on list items (immediate children only). **This only applies to immediate children list items**, meaning you will need to add the class for any nested lists as well.

{% example html %}
<ul class="list-unstyled">
  <li>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet</li>
  <li>Consectetur adipiscing elit</li>
  <li>Integer molestie lorem at massa</li>
  <li>Facilisis in pretium nisl aliquet</li>
  <li>Nulla volutpat aliquam velit
    <ul>
      <li>Phasellus iaculis neque</li>
      <li>Purus sodales ultricies</li>
      <li>Vestibulum laoreet porttitor sem</li>
      <li>Ac tristique libero volutpat at</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Faucibus porta lacus fringilla vel</li>
  <li>Aenean sit amet erat nunc</li>
  <li>Eget porttitor lorem</li>
</ul>
{% endexample %}

### Inline

Place all list items on a single line with `display: inline-block; and some light padding.

{% example html %}
<ul class="list-inline">
  <li>Lorem ipsum</li>
  <li>Phasellus iaculis</li>
  <li>Nulla volutpat</li>
</ul>
{% endexample %}

### Description

A list of terms with their associated descriptions.

{% example html %}
<dl>
  <dt>Description lists</dt>
  <dd>A description list is perfect for defining terms.</dd>
  <dt>Euismod</dt>
  <dd>Vestibulum id ligula porta felis euismod semper eget lacinia odio sem nec elit.</dd>
  <dd>Donec id elit non mi porta gravida at eget metus.</dd>
  <dt>Malesuada porta</dt>
  <dd>Etiam porta sem malesuada magna mollis euismod.</dd>
</dl>
{% endexample %}

### Horizontal description

Make terms and descriptions in `<dl>` line up side-by-side. Starts off stacked like default `<dl>`s, but when the navbar expands, so do these.

{% example html %}
<dl class="dl-horizontal">
  <dt>Description lists</dt>
  <dd>A description list is perfect for defining terms.</dd>
  <dt>Euismod</dt>
  <dd>Vestibulum id ligula porta felis euismod semper eget lacinia odio sem nec elit.</dd>
  <dd>Donec id elit non mi porta gravida at eget metus.</dd>
  <dt>Malesuada porta</dt>
  <dd>Etiam porta sem malesuada magna mollis euismod.</dd>
  <dt>Felis euismod semper eget lacinia</dt>
  <dd>Fusce dapibus, tellus ac cursus commodo, tortor mauris condimentum nibh, ut fermentum massa justo sit amet risus.</dd>
</dl>
{% endexample %}

<div class="bs-callout bs-callout-info">
  <h4>Auto-truncating</h4>
  <p>Horizontal description lists will truncate terms that are too long to fit in the left column with <code>text-overflow</code>. In narrower viewports, they will change to the default stacked layout.</p>
</div>
