docs/getting-started/accessibility.md, before:

---
layout: docs
title: Accessibility
description: Learn how Bootstrap supports common web standards for making sites that are accessibile to those using assistive technology.
group: getting-started
---

Bootstrap follows common web standards and—with minimal extra effort—can be used to create sites that are accessible to those using <abbr title="Assistive Technology" class="initialism">AT</abbr>.

## Contents

* Will be replaced with the ToC, excluding the "Contents" header
{:toc}

## Component requirements

Some common HTML elements are always in need for basic accessibility enhancements through `role`s and Aria attributes. Below is a list of some of the most frequently used ones.

### Button groups

In order for assistive technologies–such as screen readers–to convey that a series of buttons is grouped, an appropriate `role` attribute needs to be provided. For button groups, this would be `role="group"`, while toolbars should have a `role="toolbar"`.

In addition, groups and toolbars should be given an explicit label, as most assistive technologies will otherwise not announce them, despite the presence of the correct `role` attribute. In the examples provided here, we use `aria-label`, but alternatives such as `aria-labelledby` can also be used.

## Skip navigation

If your navigation contains many links and comes before the main content in the DOM, add a `Skip to main content` link before the navigation (for a simple explanation, see this [A11Y Project article on skip navigation links](http://a11yproject.com/posts/skip-nav-links/)). Using the `.sr-only` class will visually hide the skip link, and the <code>.sr-only-focusable</code> class will ensure that the link becomes visible once focused (for sighted keyboard users).

{% callout danger %}
Due to long-standing shortcomings/bugs in Internet Explorer (see this article on [in-page links and focus order](http://accessibleculture.org/articles/2010/05/in-page-links/)), you will need to make sure that the target of your skip link is at least programmatically focusable by adding `tabindex="-1"`.

In addition, you may want to explicitly suppress a visible focus indication on the target (particularly as Chrome currently also sets focus on elements with `tabindex="-1"` when they are clicked with the mouse) with `#content:focus { outline: none; }`.

Note that this bug will also affect any other in-page links your site may be using, rendering them useless for keyboard users. You may consider adding a similar stop-gap fix to all other named anchors / fragment identifiers that act as link targets.
{% endcallout %}

{% highlight html %}
<body>
  <a href="#content" class="sr-only sr-only-focusable">Skip to main content</a>
  ...
  <div class="container" id="content" tabindex="-1">
    <!-- The main page content -->
  </div>
</body>
{% endhighlight %}

## Nested headings

When nesting headings (`<h1>` - `<h6>`), your primary document header should be an `<h1>`. Subsequent headings should make logical use of `<h2>` - `<h6>` such that screen readers can construct a table of contents for your pages.

Learn more at [HTML CodeSniffer](https://squizlabs.github.io/HTML_CodeSniffer/Standards/Section508/) and [Penn State's Accessibility](http://accessibility.psu.edu/headings/).

## Additional resources

- ["HTML Codesniffer" bookmarklet for identifying accessibility issues](https://github.com/squizlabs/HTML_CodeSniffer)
- [The A11Y Project](http://a11yproject.com/)
- [MDN accessibility documentation](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility)

Commit message:

Rewrite getting started/accessibility docs
A long overdue rewrite of the accessibility section - instead of the few
snippets of strangely superficial and out-of-context advice (skip links,
use correct heading levels), this tries to answer some of the
fundamental questions about "is Bootstrap accessible", with emphasis on
the fact that the final result will depend in large part on what BS is
applied to/on (since BS relies on the markup etc authored by
developers). This also sets out our ambition to have things work for
keyboard and assistive tech users, and that we strive to make all our
examples etc accessible and semantic.

* Changes based on @mdo's feedback

docs/getting-started/accessibility.md, after:

---
layout: docs
title: Accessibility
description: A brief overview of Bootstrap's features and limitations for the creation of accessible content.
group: getting-started
---

Bootstrap provides an easy-to-use framework of ready-made styles, layout tools, and interactive components, allowing developers to create web sites and applications that are visually appealing, functionally rich, and accessible out of the box.

## Contents

* Will be replaced with the ToC, excluding the "Contents" header
{:toc}

## Overview and limitations

The overall accessibility of any project built with Bootstrap depends in large part on the author's markup, additional styling, and scripting they've included. However, provided that these have been implemented correctly, it should be perfectly possible to create web sites and applications with Bootstrap that fulfill [<abbr title="Web Content Accessibility Guidelines">WCAG</abbr> 2.0](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20/) (A/AA/AAA), [Section 508](https://www.section508.gov/) and similar accessibility standards and requirements.

### Structural markup

Bootstrap's styling and layout can be applied to a wide range of markup structures. This documentation aims to provide developers with best practice examples to demonstrate the use of Bootstrap itself and illustrate appropriate semantic markup, including ways in which potential accessibility concerns can be addressed.

### Interactive components

Bootstrap's interactive components—such as modal dialogs, dropdown menus and custom tooltips—are designed to work for touch, mouse and keyboard users. Through the use of relevant [<abbr title="Web Accessibility Initiative">WAI</abbr> <abbr title="Accessible Rich Internet Applications">ARIA</abbr>](https://www.w3.org/WAI/intro/aria) roles and attributes, these components should also be understandable and operable using assistive technologies (such as screen readers).

Because Bootstrap's components are purposely designed to be fairly generic, authors may need to include further <abbr title="Accessible Rich Internet Applications">ARIA</abbr> roles and attributes, as well as JavaScript behavior, to more accurately convey the precise nature and functionality of their component. This is usually noted in the documentation.

### Color contrast

Most colors that currently make up Bootstrap's default palette—used throughout the framework for things such as button variations, alert variations, form validation indicators—lead to *insufficient* color contrast (below the recommended [WCAG 2.0 color contrast ratio of 4.5:1](https://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/visual-audio-contrast-contrast.html)) when used against a light background. Authors will need to manually modify/extend these default colors to ensure adequate color contrast ratios.

### Visually hidden content

Content which should be visually hidden, but remain accessible to assistive technologies such as screen readers, can be styled using the `.sr-only` class. This can be useful in situations where additional visual information or cues (such as meaning denoted through the use of color) need to also be conveyed to non-visual users.

{% highlight html %}
<p class="text-danger">
  <span class=".sr-only">Danger: </span>
  This action is not reversible
</p>
{% endhighlight %}

For visually hidden interactive controls, such as traditional "skip" links, `.sr-only` can be combined with the `.sr-only-focusable` class. This will ensure that the control becomes visible once focused (for sighted keyboard users).

{% highlight html %}
<a class="sr-only sr-only-focusable" href="#content">Skip to main content</a>
{% endhighlight %}

## Additional resources

- [Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.0](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20/)
- [The A11Y Project](http://a11yproject.com/)
- [MDN accessibility documentation](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility)
- [Tenon.io Accessibility Checker](https://tenon.io/)
- [Colour Contrast Analyser (CCA)](https://www.paciellogroup.com/resources/contrastanalyser/)
- ["HTML Codesniffer" bookmarklet for identifying accessibility issues](https://github.com/squizlabs/HTML_CodeSniffer)
